Module 11 Challenge
Due Mar 20 at 10:59pm Points 100 Questions 6 Time Limit None Allowed Attempts 5
Instructions
Ransomware Riddles
note
The main part of this Challenge assignment reinforces the cryptography topics covered in class this week. The assignment also includes a Career Services reminder at the end—complete your milestones to become employer-ready and employer-competitive.

In this assignment, you will play the role of a cybersecurity analyst at Nakatomi Hospital.

Unfortunately, one of the hospital's doctors opened an email containing ransomware.

This ransomware spread throughout the hospital and encrypted all patient records.

The ransomware has given you two options to decrypt and retrieve the patient records: either pay 100 Bitcoin or solve six riddles.

Since you refuse to pay a ransom, you'll have to solve six cryptographic riddles. Act fast: the doctors need to access the patient records as lives are at stake!

Topics Covered in This Assignment
Encryption
Decryption
Caesar cipher
Encoding and decoding
Binary
Symmetric and asymmetric encryption
Open SSL
Key/IV
Public/private keys
Key Distribution
Hashing
Hashing algorithms
Hashcat
Steganography
Steghide
Files Required
The entire assignment can be completed on the publicly available website linked below. If for any reason the website is unavailable or you encounter other issues, you can also access the offline copy of the site linked below.

Website: https://sites.google.com/view/cryptobreakout/Links to an external site.

Offline Copy: Crypto_ChallengeLinks to an external site.

Instructions
To solve the riddles, apply the cryptographic concepts that we've covered in the past three lessons.

Once you've solved a riddle, submit your answer on the bottom of the Riddle page.

If you have solved the riddle correctly, you will receive a key. Keep notes of all the riddle answers and keys. You will use those keys to answer the questions in this quiz.

Once you have collected all six keys, select the Ransomware Decrypted header on the website and enter all your keys.

If all six keys are correct, the ransomware will be removed and the data will be decrypted.

Good luck, and act fast—the Nakatomi patients are counting on you!

IMPORTANT: Please review your answers carefully before submitting, to ensure that they are free of spelling and spacing errors. Incorrect spelling or incorrect spacing syntax will be marked as incorrect answers.

Career Services: Developing Your Resume and LinkedIn Profile
You are nearly halfway through the boot camp; now is a great time to tackle another Career Services milestone.

To stand out in the job market, you'll need to pair the tools and skills you've learned so far with polished and up-to-date materials that highlight your experience, skills, and connections. In this milestone, you will become more employer-competitive by strengthening your resume.

To meet the submission criteria for the milestone:

Polish your resume using the resources available in the Career Services section of Canvas (select "Career Services" in the left-hand panel menu).
Submit Milestone: Develop Your Resume to the Career Services team for feedback.
Still have earlier milestones you'd like to complete? You can complete them by visiting the same Career Services section of Canvas.

Attempt History
Attempt	Time	Score
LATEST	Attempt 1	34 minutes	100 out of 100
 Answers will be shown after your last attempt
Score for this attempt: 100 out of 100
Submitted Mar 17 at 1pm
This attempt took 34 minutes.
 
Question 1
15 / 15 pts
What is the first key (Riddle 1)?
6skd8s
Correct. The answer to the riddle was gruber
 
Question 2
20 / 20 pts
What is the second key (Riddle 2)?
cy8snd2
Correct. The answer to the riddle was Gennero
 
Question 3
15 / 15 pts
What is the third key (Riddle 3)?
ud6s98n
Correct. The answer to the riddle was takagi
 
Question 4
15 / 15 pts
What is the fourth key (Riddle 4)?

7gsn3nd2
Correct.

Jack would use Jill's public key to encrypt a message that he will send to Jill.

Jill would decrypt this message with her private key.

Six people total:

Asymmetric = 6 * 2 = 12 Keys
Symmetric = (6 * (6 -1))/2 = (6 * 5)/2 = 30/2 = 15 Keys
Tim would only use someone else's public key to encrypt a message. The only other person's public key is Alice.

 
Question 5
20 / 20 pts
What is the fifth key (Riddle 5)?

ajy39d2
Correct. The answer to the riddle was argyle
 
Question 6
15 / 15 pts
What is the sixth key (Riddle 6)?

7skahd6
Correct. The answer to the riddle was mcclane