Introduction to Module 18
SIEM

In this module, we will focus on one of the most popular types of software that security professionals use to monitor their environments: SIEM, which stands for security information and event management. While many different SIEM vendors exist in today's marketplace, we will primarily focus on one vendor: Splunk. This week we will learn about Splunk's core functionalities, and next week we will preview Splunk's SIEM product, Splunk Enterprise Security.

This first of two modules dedicated to SIEM will include the following:

    Day 1 will cover why and how businesses monitor their environment, how they use alerts to detect security events, and what makes SIEM such a powerful product for managing the many challenges of security monitoring.
    Day 2 will introduce a big data analysis tool called Splunk. We will learn how to use Splunk's Search and Reporting application to create basic and complex Splunk searches.
    Day 3 will build on the concepts covered on Day 2, exploring Splunk's reporting and alerting capabilities. We will also learn about the importance of "good" alerts and how to build them.

What to Be Aware Of

At the end of Day 1, you will start to set up your Splunk environment inside of your web lab. Be sure to attend office hours before Day 2 if you have any issues accessing the Splunk application.
Security+ Domains

This module covers portions of the following domains on the Security+ exam:

    1.0 General Security Conceptss
    3.0 Security Architecture
    4.0 Security Operations

For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:
Security+ Exam Objectives

Links to an external site.
This Week’s Lab Environment

You will use your local web lab for Day 2 and Day 3's activities.
Preview This Week’s Challenge

In this week's Challenge, you will develop Splunk searches, custom reports, and alerts to monitor a fictional company's security environment to protect from future attacks.
Looking Forward

Next week, we'll learn advanced Splunk skills, such as how to design visualizations and build dashboards. We will also preview Splunk's SIEM product, Splunk Enterprise Security, and introduce Splunk careers and certifications. We will conclude the week with a fun and challenging Splunk mini-project called Master of the SOC.
Further Reading and Resources

Engage with the following resources to supplement the concepts covered in this module:

Day 1 Resources

    DNS Stuff: 10 Log Sources You Should Monitor 

Links to an external site.
DNS Stuff: 15 Best SIEM Tools for 2024

    Links to an external site.

Day 2 Resources

    Splunk: Search Cheat Sheet 

    Links to an external site.

Day 3 Resources

    Atlassian: Alert Fatigue 


