Module 18 Challenge

Instructions
Let's Go Splunking!

You have just been hired as an SOC analyst by Vandalay Industries, an importing and exporting company.

    Vandalay Industries uses Splunk for its security monitoring and has been experiencing various security issues over the past few months.

    You are tasked with developing searches, custom reports, and alerts to monitor Vandalay's security environments to protect from future attacks.

System Requirements

You will use the Splunk app located in the M18 lab environment.
Your Objective

Utilize your Splunk skills to design a powerful monitoring solution to protect Vandalay from security attacks.

Note: As you complete this assignment, make sure to take notes to help with the upcoming quiz.
Topics Covered in This Assignment

    Researching and adding new apps
    Installing new apps
    Uploading files
    Splunk searching
    Using fields
    Custom reports
    Custom alerts

Let's get started!
Vandalay Industries Monitoring Activity Instructions

Note: As you progress through this activity, take notes and document your work in your report. It will be a useful reference for the quiz questions.
Step 1: The Need for Speed

Background: As the worldwide leader of importing and exporting, Vandalay Industries has been the target of many adversaries attempting to disrupt its online business. Recently, Vandalay has been experiencing DDoS attacks against its web servers.

Not only were Vandalay web servers taken offline by a DDoS attack, but upload and download speeds were also significantly impacted after the outage. Your networking team provided results of a network speed run around the time of the latest DDoS attack.

Your Task: Create a report to determine the impact of the DDoS attack on upload and download speed. Create an additional field to calculate the ratio of the upload speed to the download speed. To do so, complete the following steps:

    Upload the following file containing the system speeds around the time of the attack:
        Speed Test File 

        Links to an external site.

    Using the eval command, create a field called ratio that shows the ratio between the upload and download speeds.

        Hint: The format for creating a ratio is: | eval new_field_name = 'fieldA' / 'fieldB'

    Create a report using Splunk's table command to display the following fields in a statistics report:
        _time
        IP_ADDRESS
        DOWNLOAD_MEGABITS
        UPLOAD_MEGABITS
        ratio

        Hint: Use the following format for the table command: | table fieldA fieldB fieldC

Answer the following questions and include them in your notes:

    Based on the report you created, what is the approximate date and time of the attack?

    How long did it take your systems to recover?

    Make sure to include a screenshot of your report along with the answers to these questions.

Step 2: Are We Vulnerable?

Background: Due to the frequency of attacks, your manager needs to be sure that sensitive customer data on their servers is not vulnerable. Since Vandalay uses Nessus vulnerability scanners, you have pulled the scans from the last 24 hours to see if there are any critical vulnerabilities.

    For more information on Nessus, refer to the following link: https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus 

    Links to an external site..

Your Task: Create a report determining how many critical vulnerabilities exist on the customer data server. Then, build an alert to notify your team if a critical vulnerability reappears on this server. To do so, complete the following steps:

Upload the following file from the Nessus vulnerability scan:

    Nessus Scan Results 

    Links to an external site.

    Create a report that shows the count of critical vulnerabilities from the customer database server.
        The database server IP is 10.11.36.23.
        The field that identifies the level of vulnerabilities is severity.

    Build an alert that monitors daily to see if this server has any critical vulnerabilities. If a vulnerability exists, have an alert emailed to soc@vandalay.com.

Step 3: Drawing the (Base)line

Background: A Vandalay server is also experiencing brute-force attacks against its administrator account. Management would like you to set up monitoring to notify the SOC team if a brute-force attack occurs again.

Your Task: Analyze administrator logs that document a brute-force attack. Then, create a baseline of the ordinary amount of administrator bad logins and determine a threshold to indicate if a brute-force attack is occurring. To do so, complete the following steps:

Upload the following administrator login logs: - Admin Logins

Links to an external site.

Answer the following and include it in your notes:

    When did the brute force attack occur?

    > **Hint:** Look for the `name` field to find failed logins.
    > 
    > Note that the attack lasted several hours.

    Determine a baseline of normal activity and a threshold that would alert if a brute-force attack is occurring.

    Design an alert to check the threshold every hour and email the SOC team at SOC@vandalay.com if triggered.

Activity Guidelines

    Ensure you have taken adequate notes to use for the quiz questions that follow.

