Module 18 Career Connection
Career Connection

Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

    Complexity in the Workplace
    Finding Your Career Fit: Negotiate Your Salary
    Interview Prep
    Next Steps

Complexity in the Workplace

You may be noticing that cybersecurity systems can quickly become overly complex if they are not designed with care. In fact, this is a top concern in the cybersecurity industry. Many companies find themselves in a stressful situation where their IT system, SIEM, and other security tools and platforms are creating so much complexity that it leads to concerning levels of risk. As a cybersecurity professional, you will face the task of utilizing, designing, or improving these systems. In order to be a value-add to the industry and your teams, solidify your knowledge of building simplified systems that are effective, secure, and user-friendly.
Finding Your Career Fit: Negotiate Your Salary

You recently received a job offer, and you want to discuss salary to ensure you are setting yourself up for success. However, before you dive into the salary conversation, do the leg work. One of the most important steps for job seekers is accurately assessing your fair market value. We recommend using reliable employer-reported data to assess your market value, such as Salary.com.

Here are three easy ways to assess your fair market value:

    Compare the job description of the role you’re up for to an employer-reported benchmark job description. Doing this will ensure you use the job’s responsibilities and required skills to determine what the position is worth in your market.

    Consider the employer factors such as the company’s size, industry, location, culture, etc. These factors will help you determine what the company can afford and how to position yourself to ask for what you deserve.

    Evaluate how your skills and attributes impact your salary value. You must be realistic and practical when evaluating your worth to an employer. Consider all relevant skills, education, professional experience, and past performance when determining your final value.

We have gathered tips and advice from our network of trusted industry professionals to inspire your next negotiation.

Quotes from industry professionals. Golda: Make them name the price first. Talk in general terms as much as possible. Try to get parallel offers. Apply for jobs so you have a choice, rather than a serial yes or no. Ryan: Never commit in the first verbal response. You talk to others. Then, you respond in a careful email. That way, the more phone savvy recruiter can’t get you to commit to things that you shouldn’t. Bryan: Find the low, mid, and high points within your role. Then, objectively compare your skills to each of those points. Use the successes in your career to drive up your demand.

Want more help preparing for a negotiation? Check out the Career Connection Resource Library

Links to an external site. for salary negotiation guides and workshops.
interview prep
interview prep

 

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

    What is the relationship between SIEM and other security technologies, such as firewalls?

Many security technologies have distinct features, but work in complementary ways. SIEM systems ingest logs and other event data from a variety of sources, including firewalls. By integrating with SIEM, other security technologies can provide additional data and context to help the SIEM identify potential threats more effectively.

    Describe a time when you used a SIEM system to identify and respond to a security incident.

We recommend using the S.T.A.R. Method to answer this type of question. S.T.A.R. involves explaining the situation, task, action, and result of your example. For this particular question, your results should focus on the effectiveness and efficiency of your actions.
Next Steps

    Start researching your fair market value using the skills you are gaining in your program.

