8.2
Lesson 2: Ports, Protocols, and the OSI Model
Lesson 2: Ports, Protocols, and the OSI Model
Overview
Today's class is the second part of our introduction to networking. You'll learn about protocols and ports, and then use this knowledge to analyze a suspicious employee's traffic log. You'll explore how protocols work together by studying the OSI model and identifying the source of various network problems.

After studying these foundational networking concepts, you will also learn how to use Wireshark to create and analyze live traffic captures. We'll finish class by analyzing a capture file taken on a rogue employee's computer to determine exactly what they were doing and with whom they were communicating.

What You'll Learn
By the end of today's class, you'll be able to:

Interpret data in network packets by analyzing their headers, payloads, and trailers.

Explain the role of ports in specifying a network packet's destination.

Associate common protocols with their assigned ports.

Explain how encapsulation and decapsulation allow different protocols to interact with each other.

Use the layers of the OSI model to identify sources of problems on a network.

Capture and analyze live network traffic using Wireshark.

Lesson Slides
LinkLinks to an external site.

Student Guide
Student GuideLinks to an external site.

Today's Activities
Interpret protocols:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll analyze several logs of recent network activity, convert raw binary data into a readable format, and determine which protocol is being used.

Ports:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll analyze several network requests and determine the source and destination port for each request, as well as the protocol for each destination port. You'll then research the protocol to determine what kind of activities might have been conducted.

OSI layers:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll review a list of several suspicious network-related activities and document at which OSI layer each occurred.

Capture packets:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll configure your Wireshark application with five specific configuration settings.

Analyze HTTP data:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll analyze web traffic to determine what websites and webpages a specific account accessed. You'll also interrogate logs to see if this account sent any communications.
