Project 1

Hardening a Linux Server

This week, you were tasked with hardening a linux server for a fictional organization. There is no additional Challenge assignment this week.

As you worked on Project 1 throughout the week, you should have completed the summary report and checklist. This document is your Project 1 deliverable.

Before submitting this document, make sure that you have:

    Completed all required sections, including all scripts and screenshots where applicable.

When you've fully completed your Project 1 report, follow the submission guidelines to submit it through Canvas.
Submission Guidelines

    After you complete your Project 1 Summary Report and Checklist, title it with the following format: < YOUR NAME >< Project 1 Technical Brief >

    Make sure to set the file permissions so that anyone can view and comment on your document.

    Submit the URL of your Project 1  Doc through Canvas.

Plagiarism Disclaimer

    No matter how difficult the course becomes, you must always turn in original work. Plagiarism is not tolerated. If your instructional or support staff determine that you have plagiarized work, your Student Success Manager will determine the appropriate course of action based on university policy. Such actions may include, but are not limited to, a documented plagiarism discussion, an incomplete or failing grade, or ineligibility to receive the Certificate of Completion.

    It is your responsibility to include a note in the READ ME section of your repo specifying code source and its location within your repo (If Applicable). This applies if you have worked with a peer on an assignment, used code which you did not author or create sourced from a forum such as Stack Overflow, or you received code outside curriculum content from support staff such as an Instructor, TA, Tutor, or Learning Assistant. This will provide visibility to grading staff of your circumstances in order to avoid flagging your work as plagiarized.

    If you are struggling with a challenge or any aspect of the curriculum, please remember there are student support services available for you:
        Ask the class Slack channel/ peer support
        AskBCS Learning Assistants 

Links to an external site.
Office hours facilitated by your TA(s)
Tutor Guidelines
Links to an external site. (schedule a session in the "Tutor Sessions" section of Bootcampspot - Canvas)
If the above resources are not applicable and you have a need, please reach out to a member of your instructional team, your Student Success Manager or submit a support ticket here

