Module 8 Career Connection
Career Connection
Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

Networks in the Workplace
Finding Your Career Fit: Tell Your Story
Interview Prep
Next Steps
Networks in the Workplace
Raise your hand if you enjoyed designing networks! That was fun, right? The good news is that all cybersecurity professionals work with networks to some extent, but this varies by job title. For example, network security engineers design, implement, and monitor security measures to protect network from cyber threats daily. Others, such as incident responders or forensic analysts, may work with networks less frequently but still require a strong understanding of network architecture and protocols to effectively respond to and investigate security incidents.

If you love looking at the whole picture of networks as we did in this module, checkout the list of roles below:

Information Security Analyst: Monitor networks and systems for intrusion.
Network Architect/Designer: Plan, implement, and test network design and upgrades.
Network Security Engineer: Maintain network infrastructure to ensure that all users and devices can safely operate.
Penetration Tester: Test for vulnerabilities within an organization’s network.
Security Operations Center Analyst: Identify and reduce security risks to the network.
Finding Your Career Fit: Tell Your Story
Congratulations on your career journey so far! You've done the groundwork by identifying your skills, interests, and values, expanding your network, and researching exciting career opportunities. These discoveries will serve as the foundation for sharing your unique story with those in your network.

Telling your story is an opportunity to highlight the challenges you've overcome, and demonstrate your passion for the next step. Whether you're connecting with industry professionals, meeting new colleagues, or engaging in professional settings, your story will inspire and leave a lasting impression. When telling your story, it is best to:

Know your audience.

Build a bridge that connects your past experiences with your future goals.

Be authentic and honest.

Refer to the following graphic for further help executing these guidelines.

Know Your Audience: Consider what matters most to your audience. What information do they need to know about you, and how can you convey it effectively? Compile a thoughtfully curated list of experiences and skills that you can share with them. Build a Bridge: Connect your previous experiences to your current situation and articulate your goals for the future. Describe the challenges you have overcome to reach this point and explain why your current pursuits hold personal significance. Be Honest & Authentic: After writing your story, practice sharing it in various settings until you feel comfortable. Practicing will help you relax, be yourself, and add vibrancy to your narrative. Your personality will shine through, and your audience will feel engaged.

Looking for more guidance? Check out the Career Connection Resource LibraryLinks to an external site. for guides and workshops on professional storytelling.

interview prep
interview prep
 

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

Compare and contrast Local Area Networks (LANs) and Wide Area Networks (WANs). What are the advantages to each?
A LAN is a private computer network that connects devices in smaller physical areas. One pro of LANs is, due to the proximity of security devices, a business can control what data comes in and out of the local network. LANs also tend to have good speed, performance, and versatility. A WAN is a network used to connect multiple LANs. The internet is the largest WAN, and it benefits from sharing and accessing resources across a large geographical area.

What are the basic components you would use to design a LAN?
This question helps the interviewer understand your technical knowledge and problem solving skills. In addition to answering the question, it is essential that you communicate why you chose each component. Your response should show the interviewer how you make decisions and solve problems.

Next Steps
Reflect on your professional experiences, education, and life experiences. Then use your insights to develop a cohesive story that highlights your skills and shows your passion for the career goals that you are pursuing.
Practice telling your story to people in your network. Notice how they respond, and adjust your story according to these observations.

