Module 7 Career Connection
Career Connection

Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

    Hardening in the Workplace
    Finding Your Career Fit: Research An Employer
    Interview Prep
    Next Steps

Hardening in the Workplace

As the popularity of remote work continues to trend upwards, a hot topic among cybersecurity experts is how to successfully harden technology across large remote operations. It is a question that you will likely need to answer if you are interested in cybersecurity roles that oversee company assets, such as Systems Administrators or Systems Security Engineers. Equipping yourself with the skills and knowledge to harden remote systems will ensure that your professional resume is trending in the direction of the workforce.
Finding Your Career Fit: Research An Employer

The importance of researching employers during your job search should come as no surprise. Despite this, it can be difficult to determine what you should be looking for and how much research is enough.

We find that it helps to split the research process into two phases: pre-application and pre-interview. See our tips below on how to approach each of these phases.
Pre-Application

Research Goal: Determine if it is worth your time to apply for the role.

Suggested Questions:

    Does this employer align with my values?

    What benefits does the employer offer?

    Can I see myself working here?

    Would working with this employer help me reach my career goals?

Pre-Interview

Research Goal: Prepare for the interview. Researching the company before an interview will show the interviewer that you are interested in the position and prepare you to give responses that resonate with the employer.

Suggested Questions:

    What is your value-add to the company?

    What skills and experiences does the company look for in candidates?

    What are the strengths and areas of opportunity for the company?

    What do you know about the company’s industry, and what would you need to learn?

    What do you need to know about the company to continue pursuing the role?

We hope these questions help you find employers who align with your values and interests. Check out the video below to hear a career professional talk more about why it is so important to do your research and ask tough questions before accepting a job offer.

Career Advice with Tramaine

Also, the Career Connection Resource Library

Links to an external site. contains even more resources on connecting with employers, including the Career Engagement Network Job Board.
interview prep
interview prep

 

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

    Explain group policy.

Group policies specify how network resources, programs and operating systems work for workstations and users in a company. Network administrators can apply group policy to check the working conditions of users and computer accounts in the active directory. It also provides a convenient place for administrators to maintain and configure applications, operating systems, and user settings. If practiced correctly, it allows you to improve the protection of users' computers and assist them to protect against both insider and external warnings.

    What is the difference between a thread and a computer process?

In computing, a process is an instance of a computer program that is executed sequentially by a computer system that can run several computer programs concurrently. A thread is several executable programs that work together as a single process. For instance, one thread might send an error message to the user, another might handle error signals, while the third thread might be executing the original action.
Next Steps

    Have you connected with your career team to discuss your career goals? To learn more about these resources, go to the Career Services tab in your course portal. We look forward to working with you!

