Module 12 Career Connection
Career Connection
Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

Network Security in the Workplace
Finding Your Career Fit: Create Your LinkedIn Profile
Interview Prep
Next Steps
Network Security in the Workplace
For the past couple of years, we have seen a record-breaking number of phishing scams, cyberattacks, data breaches and crypto heists. These attacks are not likely to stop and network security will continue to evolve to meet these challenges. As a cybersecurity professional, it is very important that you stay abreast of network security concerns and innovations.

Corporations and governments around the world are stepping up efforts to protect the data privacy of citizens. Zero trust is starting to replace VPN as remote working continues to trend upward. Gartner Inc, a prominent research and consulting firm in the tech space, believes that zero-trust network access will grow by 31% in 2023Links to an external site. and will replace VPNs entirely by 2025. The cybersecurity field is always evolving. Your job will depend heavily on your knowledge and ability to be innovatively proactive as well as responsive to cybersecurity threats. Find a few sources of truth for your cybersecurity news and trends, and continue to learn and grow.

Finding Your Career Fit: Create Your LinkedIn Profile
LinkedIn is the world’s largest professional network that engages both employers and employees. As a social media platform, it is primarily used for professional networking and career development. When you create a profile on LinkedIn, you are creating an opportunity to connect with over 875 million people and over 58 million companies. Here are a few tips and tricks to generate an effective LinkedIn profile:

Screenshot of a LinkedIn profile.

Create a catchy headline.

When employers and recruiters search for candidates on LinkedIn, your name and job title will be their first introduction. Seize this opportunity by creating an engaging job title with keywords. Example: Security Analyst | Ensuring Constant Security Compliance | Security+

Upload a professional profile photo.

A smile goes a long way, and so does a first impression. Be sure to dress to impress with a business casual look.

Customize a background image.

What image captures your personality or your industry? Feel free to be creative or use this space to showcase your brand or professional interests.

Completing your LinkedIn Profile.

LinkedIn algorithms are based on having a completed profile. Be sure to complete all key sections so you are searchable and employers can find you! Start with the people you may know to expand your network. LinkedIn search results heavily depend on the searcher’s network. Here are a few ways to make more connections:

Search for old acquaintances: your school peers, club members, previous employers, and people you know in the industry.
Add people who are a 2nd or 3rd connection away from you: LinkedIn recommends people you may know. This connection could be through a friend of a friend or a peer of a peer.
Share your LinkedIn URL in other spaces: Add it to your email signature, business cards, resume, website, portfolio, and other career materials.
So cast a wide net and get started by connecting with friends, family, and colleagues.

We have many more LinkedIn tips for you! Check out the Career Connection Resource LibraryLinks to an external site. for more advice on how to make your LinkedIn profile stand out.

interview prep
interview prep
Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

What are the benefits of network security? What are the common types of network security protections?
Network Security is vital in protecting client data and information, keeping shared data secure and ensuring reliable access and network performance as well as protection from cyber threats. A well designed network security solution reduces overhead expenses and safeguards organizations from costly losses that occur from a data breach or other security incident. Ensuring legitimate access to systems, applications and data enables business operations and delivery of services and products to customers.

The common types of network security protections include firewalls and network segmentation.

What is the CIA Triad and why is it important in cybersecurity?
The three letters in "CIA triad" stand for Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability. The CIA triad is a common model that forms the basis for the development of security systems. They are used for finding vulnerabilities and methods for creating solutions.

The confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information is crucial to the operation of a business, and the CIA triad segments these three ideas into separate focal points. This differentiation is helpful because it helps guide security teams as they pinpoint the different ways in which they can address each concern.

Ideally, when all three standards have been met, the security profile of the organization is stronger and better equipped to handle threat incidents.

Next Steps
Build or update your LinkedIn profile according to the recommendations provided in this lesson.