Module 6 Career Connection
Career Connection

Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

    Bash Scripting in the Workplace
    Finding Your Career Fit: Prepare for a Proactive Job Search
    Interview Prep
    Next Steps

Bash Scripting in the Workplace

Bash scripting is an extremely useful skill for a security professional. There are a number of cybersecurity jobs that require a solid background in programming, Linux, and Bash scripting. In your cybersecurity role, you want to be comfortable using the Bash scripting language for navigation, working with tools, and automating repetitive tasks. Since Bash comes pre-installed, you can find it on any Linux machine you work on, making it a more reliable alternative to other programming languages.

When asked about using Bash scripting in their day-to-day work, a former student, who is now a cloud security specialist, said “I have a lot of experience writing Bash scripts but I still have to look up conditionals every time. Let's face it; it's not the most beautiful language design but it is important and you will use it.”
Finding Your Career Fit: Prepare for a Proactive Job Search

Conducting a proactive job search allows you to take the reins of your search by identifying opportunities before they ever grace a job board or company website. Taking a proactive approach lets you tap into the hidden job market. You can unlock this large chunk of unadvertised opportunities via networking, word of mouth, or direct contact with recruiters.

The LAMP Method is a proactive job search strategy that helps you leverage your network, increase visibility, and find opportunities that are often part of the hidden job market.

Some fundamental aspects of the LAMP method include listing out potential employers, evaluating them based on wants and needs, surveying contacts for possible ins, and elevating your networking game with cold outreach tactics and informational interviews.

Let’s go through the steps of the LAMP Method and prepare you to use it in your job search. Learn about the LAMP Method and grab a copy of the LAMP template

Links to an external site. today.

LAMP is an acronym that stands for List, Alumni/Connections, Motivation, and Job Posting. L - List out 40 or more companies in your job-search area. Break that list into four different sections. Ten dream companies. Ten employers related to contacts and alumni associations. Ten organizations that are actively sourcing talent. Ten top-trending companies. M - Assess your motivation to work at each listed company. Rank each of the companies from highest motivation (5) to lowest motivation (1). Then rearrange your list.

A - Research your top ten companies against your connections to identify potential contacts. Reach out to alumni or contacts who work at those companies and schedule an informational interview, if possible. If not, employ “cold outreach” tactics by reaching out to contacts that you have never met. When taking this approach, it is important to point out the main reason why this person stood out as a potential contact. P - Find postings and evaluate whether you should apply. Make sure to research your target companies.

Check out the Career Connection Resource Library

Links to an external site. for more resources on launching your job search.
interview prep
interview prep

 

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

    What is Bash script?

A Bash Shell Script is a set of various commands that are usually typed in the command line. It is used to automate repetitive tasks on the Linux file system. It might include a set of commands or a single command, or it might contain the hallmarks of imperative programming like loops, functions, conditional constructs, etc. Effectively, a Bash script is a computer program written in the Bash programming language.

    What are the advantages of using Bash scripts?

Bash script has many advantages:

    It is easy to use and learn.
    Many manual tasks that need to run frequently can be done automatically by writing a Bash script.
    The sequence of multiple shell commands can be executed by a single command.
    Bash scripts written in one Linux operating system can easily execute in other Linux operating systems. So, it is portable.
    Command-line syntax and commands that are used in the terminal are similar to the commands and syntax used in Bash script.

Next Steps

    Utilize the LAMP Method to identify job opportunities that match your skills and career goals.

