12.2
Lesson 2: Intrustion Detection and Network Security Monitoring
Lesson 2: Intrusion Detection, Snort, and Network Security Monitoring
Overview
In today's class, we'll build upon our knowledge of firewalls by using intrusion detection systems such as Snort. We'll learn how to use Network Security Monitoring (NSM) and the Snort IDS engine to analyze indicators of attack (IOA) and indicators of compromise (IOC), perform network forensics, and acquire intelligence and situational awareness of our networks. Together, all of this will provide us with the information that's required to defend against network attacks.

What You’ll Learn
By the end of today’s class, you’ll be able to:

Interpret and define Snort rules and alerts.

Explain how intrusion detection systems work and how they differ from firewalls.

Use Security Onion and its suite of network security monitoring tools to trace the path of network attacks.

Collect and analyze indicators of attack and indicators of compromise using NSM tools.

Apply knowledge of NSM, Snort rules, and Security Onion to establish situational awareness within a network.

Slide Deck
[12.2 SlidesLinks to an external site.]

Student Guide
12.2 Student GuideLinks to an external site.

Today’s Activities
Intrusion Detection Systems and SnortLinks to an external site.: In this activity, you'll strengthen your knowledge of the concepts related to Snort and intrusion detection systems by implementing new security controls as an added layer of protection for a network.

Security Onion and NSMLinks to an external site.: In this activity, you'll strengthen your knowledge of concepts related to Security Onion and network security monitoring by answering questions, analyzing an indicator of attack, and establishing an attacker profile.

Alert - FTP File ExtractionLinks to an external site.: In this activity, you'll use Security Onion to analyze an indicator of attack (an alert), use NetworkMiner to perform network forensics by establishing an attacker profile and the intent behind the attack, and determine whether a breach occurred and whether any files were supplanted on or exfiltrated from the network.