8.3
Lesson 3: Following Data through Layers 2, 3 and 4
Lesson 3: Following Data Through Layers 2, 3, and 4
Overview
On the third day of our introduction to networking, you will learn how to gather data from specific networks using enumeration.

Then, you will move through the following three layers of the OSI model in more depth:

Layer 2: Data Link
Layer 3: Network
Layer 4: Transport
You'll cover the following tools and protocols related to each layer:

Layer 2: ARP
Layer 3: ping and traceroute
Layer 4: TCP and UDP
You'll finish class by performing a SYN scan to search for open ports on a network.

What You'll Learn
By the end of today's class, you'll be able to:

Define enumeration as a set of methods used by security professionals and hackers to determine network vulnerabilities.

Use Wireshark to visualize and analyze ARP activity, including ARP spoofing.

Use ping and fping to determine if hosts are up and accepting connections.

Use traceroute to troubleshoot networking communication issues between two devices.

Define and distinguish TCP and UDP.

Analyze TCP traffic in Wireshark.

Analyze SYN scans to determine the availability of ports on a network.

Student Guide
Student GuideLinks to an external site.

Slide Deck
LinkLinks to an external site.

Today's Activities
Analyze ARP:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll analyze ARP activity from a packet capture to determine if any vulnerabilities exist.

Enumeration with ping:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll be provided with a list of a fictional company's host IP addresses, and you'll use ping to determine which hosts are currently reachable.

Enumeration with traceroute:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll further analyze the IPs rejected in the last activity to determine where in their path the connection is being dropped.

Analyze TCP traffic:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll analyze the TCP traffic of a new employee at the same company to determine what they worked on in their first week.

Analyze a SYN scan:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll analyze a packet capture of a SYN scan that the same company ran against one of its hosts. You'll determine which ports are open, closed, and filtered.
