Introduction to Module 19
SIEM 2
In the second of the SIEM modules, we'll continue learning about the many features and functions Splunk provides to security professionals.

The week will include:

On Day 1, we'll build on the topics covered in the preceding module, creating visualizations and dashboards to better understand an organization's security posture.
On Day 2, we'll explore the advanced security monitoring products that security professionals use.
We'll also introduce the various certifications that Splunk offers and career paths that use the skills we learn in these two modules. You'll start your first Splunk certification: Splunk Fundamentals 1.
Day 2 will conclude with an introduction to the two remaining course projects and the optional Demo Day project.
What to Be Aware Of
The Splunk certification activity on Day 2 requires signing up for Splunk's Fundamentals 1 certification training. It may take 5–10 minutes to get access to the training module after successfully registering. If the training doesn't start after registration, wait up to 10 minutes and try starting the training module again.

Security+ Domains
This module covers portions of the following domains on the Security+ exam:

1.0 Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities
2.0 Architecture and Design
3.0 Implementation
4.0 Operations and Incident Response
For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:
Security+ Exam ObjectivesLinks to an external site.

This Week's Lab Environment
You will use your web lab for Day 1's activities.

On Day 2, you will use Splunk's Fundamentals 1 certification training module.

Preview This Week's Challenge
There is no Challenge assignment this week.

Looking Forward
Next week, we'll begin the Forensics module.

Further Reading and Resources
We recommend the following resources to supplement the concepts covered in this module:

Day 1 Resources

Splunk: Visualization referenceLinks to an external site.
Splunk: Dashboard tutorialLinks to an external site.
Day 2 Resources

Splunk: Enterprise Security softwareLinks to an external site.
Splunk: Training and certificationLinks to an external site.