23.1 Lesson 1: Career Prep and Certifications
Overview

Today marks the beginning of Career Prep Week. This week, we'll focus on steps that you can take to prepare for a job in cybersecurity. Today, we'll focus on aspects of the Security+ exam, and we'll introduce other introductory, advanced, and specialized certifications.
What You'll Learn

By the end of today's class, you'll be able to:

    Understand the importance of career and job-search preparation.

    Understand the value of certifications in your job search and career development.

    Map out certification road maps based on your specific experience level and field of interest.

    Use CompTIA's CertMaster tool to begin preparing for the Security+ exam.

    Understand performance-based questions (PBQs) and how to answer them.

Class Slides

Slides

Links to an external site.
Student Guide

Student Guide

Links to an external site.
Today's Activities

    Certifications and Careers: 

Links to an external site. In this activity, you will use job search websites to research InfoSec careers and certifications. You are tasked with finding five InfoSec careers and the desired or required certifications that align with each. You will add your findings to the spreadsheet provided.

Find a Certification Pathway:

Links to an external site. In this activity, you will research several advanced and specialized certifications. You will select an InfoSec domain that you are interested in and determine its relevant certifications. You will add your findings to the spreadsheet that you worked on in the previous activity and share your findings with fellow students who share similar interests.

Security+ CertMaster:

Links to an external site. In this activity, you will access your Security+ CertMaster study tool. You are tasked with completing 1 module of 12 questions from the CertMaster tool. For this first attempt, try to answer the questions without using external resources to see how prepared you are for the exam.

Security+ PBQs:
Links to an external site. In this activity, you will be provided with several Security+ PBQs. You are tasked with completing all the questions in the allotted time. Be sure to read all the instructions carefully before completing the activity.
