Introduction to Module 1
Introduction to Module 1
Security 101

Welcome to the Cybersecurity Boot Camp!

In each module, this intro page will provide you with an overview of the module, as well as technical lab information, a preview of the Challenge assignment, useful resources for the week, and a preview of what’s coming up in the next module.

In Module 1, we will introduce the course’s structure and some of the tools and topics that it will cover. You’ll also explore some fundamental cybersecurity concepts, like the CIA triad, and you’ll work in groups to assess some basic attack and defense strategies.

On the final day of this module, we’ll focus on professional pathways by exploring cybersecurity certifications and professions. Specifically, we’ll introduce the Security+ exam, the domains that it covers, and how this class will prepare you to take this exam.
What to Be Aware Of

    Throughout the course, we will use features on Zoom and Slack to optimize the online learning experience. These tools include breakout rooms for group activities and class polls to assess comprehension after activities.

    On Day 3, we will cover cybersecurity professional pathways and certifications. It is perfectly okay if you do not have a strong sense of the specific pathways you would like to pursue at this time. Over the next 24 weeks, this boot camp will present a wide scope of cybersecurity skills and domains, giving you the opportunity to narrow down your interests.

Security+ Domains

On Day 3 of this module, we will introduce the Security+ exam and its domains. In the coming modules, we will provide details about other domains covered on the exam.

For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:

    CompTIA: Security+ Exam Objectives 

    Links to an external site.

Preview This Week's Challenge

Each module in this course includes a Challenge homework assignment that you’ll be able to complete by the end of the module using the knowledge you gained in class. Challenges are due one week after they’re assigned.

For this module’s Challenge, you will review three real-world cybersecurity reports and answer questions about each.
Looking Forward

The next module will examine how to use AI/ML in cybersecurity with hands-on tools like chatGPT and WhiterabbitNeo

We will introduce you to the basics of Artificial Intelligence/Machine Language (AI/ML) and demonstrate how these tools assist the cybersecurity expert in offensive and defensive actions.
Further Reading and Resources

Day 1 Resources

    Zoom Features 

    Links to an external site.

Day 2 Resources

    Cisco: What Are the Most Common Cyber Attacks? 

    Links to an external site.

Day 3 Resources

    Cyber Seek: Cybersecurity Career Pathway 

Links to an external site.
Wikipedia: Computer Security Certifications
Links to an external site.
Paul Jerimy's Security Certification Roadmap

