
Module 5 Career Connection
Career Connection
Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

Data Archiving Trends in the Workplace
Finding Your Career Fit: Make a Plan
Interview Prep
Next Steps
Data Archiving Trends in the Workplace
This week, you learned about archiving and logging data. In the workplace, data archiving is so important, especially in the digital age of rapidly changing data privacy laws and compliance regulations. As a cybersecurity professional, it is important to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies, tools, and methods to ensure data is secure and managed well.

As you’re exploring your career in cybersecurity, take note of the following security focused data archiving trends:

Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) to improve data security.

Data protection and security have consistently been ranked as the most important factors of data management for many organizations. One way companies are combating cyberattacks on data is zero trust architecture.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) in data storage.

As of now, AI is mostly being used to optimize cooling and predict maintenance issues. Industry leaders say that the technology will soon be used for security, workload management, and power management.
Finding Your Career Fit: Discover Your Pathway
Setting aside time to make a plan on how to reach your career goals is well worth the effort. A good plan will keep you accountable and efficient. It can even reduce stress by breaking an ambitious career goal into achievable and manageable steps.

Today we are sharing the Career Goals Planning TemplateLinks to an external site.. This guide will help you develop your timeline and schedule for reaching your career goals.

The first task that the template will walk you through is building a timeline. As you can see from the example below, the timeline is a long-term plan where you can outline critical phases and goals.

Screenshot of the timeline portion of the template. February - April: Draft resume, List jobs and companies that interest me, Reachout to companies and people in my network, Find a career coach. May - July: Schedule informational interviews with people in my network, Apply to 5 jobs per week, Tailor resumes and application materials.

Next, you will break your timeline down into actionable steps. Use the schedule section of the template to write out these steps. You may need to create multiple schedules depending on how much you plan for your tasks to vary weekly.

Screenshot of the schedule portion of the template. Bookmark two jobs of interest: Monday and Friday. Apply for two jobs: Sunday. Work on application materials: Sunday. Reach out to two people in my network: Monday and Tuesday. Chat with one person in my network: Thursday.

Of course, you are welcome to edit the template to fit your specific needs and career goals. Now, grab a beverage, find a cozy spot, and start planning.

Additionally, you can check out the Career Connection Resource LibraryLinks to an external site. for job search planning guides and workshops.

interview prep
interview prep
Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

What types of network attacks can be prevented by data archiving?
Without a strategic data archiving policy, organizations can be vulnerable to potential risks. Data can be compromised or lost as a result of malicious attacks, employee error or natural disaster. Social engineering attacks like phishing are a primary vector used by attackers to access sensitive data. Other attacks that can be prevented by data archiving include ransomware, malicious insider attacks, and SQL injection.

When answering a question like this, focus on what is being asked and answer the question fully. It is also okay to bring up anything that’s particularly interesting to you regarding data security. For instance, with this question, you can talk about the benefits of data archiving from a security and business perspective. This will allow you to show the full range of your cybersecurity knowledge and demonstrate your passion for the industry.

What type of attack could an adversary perform using cron?
Adversaries may abuse the cron utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The cron utility is a time-based job scheduler for Unix-like operating systems. The crontab file contains the schedule of cron entries to be run and the specified times for execution. Any crontab files are stored in operating system-specific file paths. An adversary may use cron in Linux or Unix environments to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for persistence.

Next Steps
Use the Career Goals Planning TemplateLinks to an external site. to develop your plan and reach your career goals.

