Introduction to Module 5
Module 5 README: Enhancing System Functionality
Module Description
In this module, we will continue to learn system administration fundamentals by working in Linux environments to back up and recover data, preserving integrity and availability.

We will use the tar command to create, list, and extract data from archives. Creating archives ensures the availability of users’ data and configuration files.

We will use the cron utility to automate computing tasks to schedule regular and automatic execution of important maintenance and security operations.

Module Objectives

Day 1: Backups and Restoring Data with tar

Identify and describe use cases for the three kinds of backups.
Create (tar) an archive from existing files and directories.
List and search the contents of an existing archive.
Extract (untar) the contents of an archive.
Describe and demonstrate two exploits for the tar command.

Day 2: cron and Scheduled Jobs

Schedule regular jobs for individual users with crontab.
Write simple scripts for maintenance and security tasks.
Use cron to automate the execution of security scripts to perform maintenance on a regular basis.

Lab Environment
This module will continue to use the web lab we used in the previous module.

Student lab access credentials:

Username: sysadmin
Password: cybersecurity
What to Be Aware Of
When editing crontabs in Day 2, you may not be able to save the settings properly. This is because the file is defaulting to DOS mode when saved. This issue typically only occurs on Windows machines. To make sure the file is not saving in DOS mode, press Alt+M when saving a file in Nano.
Security+ Domains
This module covers portions of the following domains on the Security+ exam:

3.0 Security Architecture
4.0 Security Operations
5.0 Security Program Management and Oversight
For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:

Security+ Exam ObjectivesLinks to an external site.
Additional Reading and Resources

Additional Reading and Resources
Click here to view additional reading materials and resources.

These resources are provided as optional, recommended resources to supplement the concepts covered in this module.

The Linux Command Line, 2nd Edition Links to an external site.by William Shotts

Downloadable PDFLinks to an external site.

Pages: 230-235
Linux Essentials Manual, The LPI Introductory Programme

Downloadable PDFLinks to an external site.

Pages: 145-152
Day 1 Resources

How-to Geek: How to Compress and Extract Files Using tarLinks to an external site.
Day 2 Resources

Crontab GeneratorLinks to an external site.


Looking Forward
Module 6: Bash Scripting and Programming

Next week, you will work through a series of exercises to create custom commands and Bash scripts to collect evidence, perform system audits, reconfigure a Linux installation, and take the necessary steps to harden Linux systems.

Make sure to pull the latest builds before starting the Challenge assignment.
