18.1 Lesson 1: Introduction to SIEM
Overview

This module marks the transition into defensive security topics. This week, we'll start with an introduction to SIEM technology. We'll introduce various concepts of security monitoring, such as prioritizing threats and log aggregation and correlation, and then we'll learn how to apply these concepts to a SIEM software.
What You’ll Learn

By the end of today’s class, you’ll be able to:

    Analyze logs and determine the types of data they contain, as well as the types of security events they can help identify.

    Isolate, identify, and correlate fields across raw log files.

    Design a correlation rule that triggers a notification when an event occurs.

    Make informed decisions about which SIEM vendor is best for an organization.

Slide Deck

Slides

Links to an external site.
Student Guide

Student Guide M18.1

Links to an external site.
Today’s Activities

    Monitoring Assets: In this activity, you will review the types of security events that a fictional company, OMP, has experienced, and rank them based on their risk to the organization.

Activity 1 - Monitoring Assets

Links to an external site.

    What is this Log?: In this activity, you'll analyze logs and determine what type of data they contain.

Activity 2: What is this Log?

Links to an external site.

    Log Aggregation and Normalization: In this activity, you will aggregate and normalize OMP's web server logs by identifying the various fields in the log files.

Activity 3: Log Aggregation and Normalization

Links to an external site.

    Rule Correlation: In this activity, you will make a plan for identifying an attack when it is occurring. Since you don't have a SIEM tool yet, you will provide a plainly worded outline of a correlation rule that could be used to identify an attack.

Activity 4: Rule Correlation

Links to an external site.

    Choosing a SIEM Vendor: In this activity, you will analyze several SIEM vendors and choose the best one for OMP.

Activity 5: Choosing a SIEM Vendor

