Module 3 Career Connection
Career Connection

Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

    Linux in the Workplace

    Finding Your Career Fit: Build Your Network

    Interview Prep

    Next Steps

Linux in the Workplace

There are over 600 active Linux distributions (or distros). According to Linux distribution usage statistics

Links to an external site., some of the most commonly used distros are Debian, Gentoo, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Fedora, Kali Linux, Arch Linux, and OpenSUSE. You will likely encounter several Linux distros throughout your cybersecurity career.

Although Kali Linux is one of the most popular and widely used distros for cybersecurity professionals, there are many others that are well-suited to assessing and exploiting security vulnerabilities. If you see other distros mentioned on job postings, or hear them in conversations, know that you will pick them up quickly by building a strong foundation in Kali.
Finding Your Career Fit: Build Your Network

Building your network is easier than you think. It starts with the people who are close to you (virtually and physically) and branches out from there. Consider the image below, which depicts the four common circles of connection. Who fits into your network, based on this framework?

Four concentric circles. Listed here from outermost to innermost. Audience: people within reach with whom you have little or no connection. Acquaintances: people you have met at least once or have heard of you. Friends: people whom you communicate with frequently or who have common interests. Inner Circle: people who know you best.

It's important to start thinking about your network now, because a strong network is essential to reaching your career goals. People in your network can help review your resume, refer you to jobs, connect you with other professionals, teach you new skills, and more. We’ve created a Build-Your-Network Guide

Links to an external site. to help you start mapping out your network and identifying opportunities within it.

Check out the Career Connection Resource Library

Links to an external site. for additional resources on networking and LinkedIn, such as our LinkedIn checklist.
interview prep
interview prep

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

    Name some of the most critical security concerns for the Linux platform.

Some of the most critical security concerns for Linux include vulnerabilities, misconfigurations and security gaps, and malware:

    Vulnerabilities: One of the most common methods cybercriminals use to gain initial access into an environment is the exploitation of a vulnerability in a publicly hosted service. The lack of both vulnerability management and tracking procedures can leave Linux systems highly exposed when a vulnerability is found and an exploit is published.

    Misconfigurations and security gaps: Misconfigurations are quite common and have always been a critical security concern. A misconfiguration is a weakness that is typically introduced during the process of configuring software. When companies started switching to new environments like the cloud, many inadvertently brought misconfigurations with them, which created security gaps.

    Malware: There are a variety of malware that exist on the Linux platform. The malware that seem to be the most pervasive include ransomware, cryptocurrency miners, user- and kernel-mode rootkits, worms, trojans, backdoors, and remote access trojans (RATs).

This type of question can be answered broadly, as demonstrated above, and it can be very conversational. As you’re formulating your answer to a question like this, think about everything you’ve learned about Linux systems and their vulnerabilities. Also think about the distribution used at the company for which you’re interviewing. Feel free to invite your interviewer into the discussion by asking: What have been some of this team’s critical security concerns? Once you know the team’s concerns, you can speak to them directly.

    Which tools can help you check whether your Linux system has been compromised?

There are a few different tools that can help you check whether your Linux system has been compromised. One is called chkrootkit, which checks for signs of a rootkit. Another is rkhunter, which checks for known rootkits and other suspicious files. Finally, you can check the system logs to see any suspicious entries.
Next Steps

    Use your Build-Your-Network Guide 

Links to an external site. to map out your network. Identify and add 3–4 connections today.
