 Question 1
5 / 5 pts
Which of the following is NOT a Linux distribution?
  Ubuntu
  Fedora
  Windows
Correct! Windows is an operating system developed by Microsoft, whereas Ubuntu, Fedora, and CentOS are popular Linux distributions.
  CentOS
 
Question 2
5 / 5 pts
Which command is used to list the contents of a directory in Linux?
  cd
  mkdir
  ls
Correct! The ls command is used to list the contents of a directory. The cd command is for changing directories, the mkdir command is for creating directories, and the cat command is for displaying file contents.
  cat
 
Question 3
5 / 5 pts
To create a new directory called "new_folder", which command should you use?
  mkdir new_folder
Correct! The mkdir command is used to create new directories. The touch command creates files, the rm command removes files or directories, and the mv command moves or renames files or directories.
  touch new_folder
  rm new_folder
  mv new_folder
 
Question 4
5 / 5 pts
Which command is used to display the contents of a file in Linux?
  echo
  cp
  cat
Correct! The cat command is used to display the contents of a file. echo prints text to the terminal, cp copies files or directories, and rmdir removes empty directories.
  rmdir
 
Question 5
5 / 5 pts
How do you change the current directory to a directory called "documents"?
  cd documents
Correct. The cd command is used to change the current directory. ls lists directory contents, mv moves or renames files or directories, and cp copies files or directories.
  ls documents
  mv documents
  cp documents
 
Question 6
5 / 5 pts
Which command would you use to remove an empty directory named "old_folder"?
  rmdir old_folder
Correct. The rmdir command is used to remove empty directories. 
  rm -rf old_folder
  rm old_folder
  mv old_folder
 
Question 7
5 / 5 pts
Which command is used to create an empty file named "file.txt"?
  mkdir file.txt
  touch file.txt
Correct! The touch command is used to create an empty file or update the timestamp of an existing file. mkdir creates directories, cat displays file contents, and echo prints text to the terminal.
  cat file.txt
  echo file.txt
 
Question 8
5 / 5 pts
Which command can be used to view the beginning of a file in the terminal?
  head
Correct! The head command is used to display the first few lines of a file. tail shows the last few lines, and more and less are used for paging through files.
  tail
  more
  less
 
Question 9
5 / 5 pts
How can you view the manual page for a command in the terminal?
  man command_name
Correct! The man command is used to display the manual page for a specific command, providing detailed information on its usage.
  help command_name
  manual command_name
  info command_name
 
Question 10
5 / 5 pts
Which command allows you to preview a file one screen at a time?
  head
  tail
  more
Correct! The more command lets you preview the contents of a file one screen at a time, making it easier to read large files.
  echo
 
Question 11
5 / 5 pts
What is the function of the | (pipe) symbol in the command line?
  Redirect output to a file
  Combine two or more commands
Correct! The pipe symbol | is used to pass the output of one command as the input to another command, allowing for complex command sequences.
  Terminate a command
  Display command history
 
Question 12
5 / 5 pts
To search for a string within files using the terminal, which command would you use?
  find
  grep
Correct! The grep command is used to search for a specific string within files and display the matching lines.
  locate
  search
 
Question 13
5 / 5 pts
Which command allows you to display the manual page for the ls command?
  ls --help
  man ls
Correct! The man ls command opens the manual page for the ls command, providing detailed information about its options and usage.
  help ls
  ls -man
 
Question 14
5 / 5 pts
Which command can be used to search for files based on specific criteria in Linux?
  find
Correct! The find command is used to search for files in a directory hierarchy based on various criteria like name, size, modification time, etc.
  grep
  wc
  echo
 
Question 15
5 / 5 pts
What is the primary purpose of the grep command in Linux?
  Count the number of words in a file
  Search for patterns within files
Correct! The grep command searches for specified patterns within files and displays the matching lines.
  Locate files within directories
  Display manual pages for commands
 
Question 16
5 / 5 pts
How can you view the manual page for the grep command in the terminal?
  grep --help
  man grep
Correct! The man command followed by the command name (e.g., man grep) displays the manual page for that command, providing detailed information on its usage and options
  help grep
  grep -man
 
Question 17
5 / 5 pts
Which command is used to count the number of lines, words, and characters in a file?
  grep
  find
  wc
Correct! The wc (word count) command is used to count the number of lines, words, and characters in a file.
  cat
 
Question 18
5 / 5 pts
Which command is used to display the history of previously executed commands in the command line?
  log
  list
  show
  history
Correct! The history command lists all previously executed commands in the command line.
 
Question 19
5 / 5 pts
Which of the following commands can be used to find all files named "example.txt" in the current directory and its subdirectories?
  find . -name example.txt
Correct! The find command with the -name option searches for files with the specified name in the current directory (represented by .) and its subdirectories.
  grep . -name example.txt
  wc . -name example.txt
  locate . -name example.txt
 
Question 20
5 / 5 pts
How can you use the wc command to count the number of lines in a file named "data.txt"?
  wc -w data.txt
  wc -c data.txt
  wc -l data.txt
Correct! The wc -l command counts the number of lines in the specified file. wc -w counts words, wc -c counts bytes, and wc -L gives the length of the longest line.
  wc -L data.txt
