Module 4 Career Connection
Career Connection

Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

    Terminal in the Workplace
    Finding Your Career Fit: Discover Your Pathway
    Interview Prep
    Next Steps

Terminal in the Workplace

If you are new to Terminal, working with the command line interface (CLI) may feel a bit clunky compared to the graphical user interfaces (GUIs) that most people are familiar with. Throughout this course, you will improve your CLI skills, and it is essential that you do because most cybersecurity professionals use the CLI on a daily basis. The CLI is a foundational cybersecurity skill because it allows us to concisely express an intent while accounting for the small details. This skill is so foundational that you won’t see it in job descriptions; employers assume that you know how to utilize the CLI because it is the most efficient way to perform tasks.
Finding Your Career Fit: Discover Your Pathway

One of the most exciting parts of this program is the versatility of your new skills. They pave the path to multiple career options. For example, your next goal may be a management role, a consulting role, or a specialist role. There are so many options, and you are still early in the program, so we recommend exploring a wide range of career opportunities.

Collin, a professional career coach, describes searching for job titles as an iterative and somewhat messy process. He emphasizes the importance of taking time to explore before making any decisions. Listen to his advice in the video clip below.

Career Advice with Collin

Let’s start exploring! Below is a list of job titles popular in your industry. We recommend reading through the list and researching any job titles that interest you.

    Network Administrator
    IT Help Desk
    Digital Forensics Examiner
    Incident Response Analyst
    Security Analyst
    Cybersecurity Engineer
    Penetration Tester / Ethical Hacker
    Cybersecurity Architect
    Security Director
    Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)

Note: You may only be qualified for some of these positions after the course, but you are building a foundation that sets you up to pursue them as you gain experience.

Are you interested in learning more about career pathways in your industry? Check out the Career Connection Resource Library

Links to an external site. for relevant workshops and guides.
interview prep
interview prep

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

    We need someone with a good balance of technical skills and soft skills. What is your greatest non-technical strength?

This is a great opportunity to talk about your transferable skills, the skills that can be transferred from one job to another. According to LinkedIn

Links to an external site., some of today’s most in-demand skills are non-technical, including communication, management, and teamwork. When responding to this question, identify one of your strengths, explain how this strength has led you to success in the past, and make a direct connection to how this strength will enable you to bring value to the company.

    What are the advantages of shell scripting?

Discuss some of the many benefits of shell scripting and how you have utilized these benefits in your work. Some benefits include the ability to automate work, to implement routine backups, and to monitor systems.
Next Steps

    Explore cybersecurity job titles and career opportunities that will be available to you after completing this course.

