Introduction to Module 4 
Linux SysAdmin Fundamentals

This module introduces Linux operating systems and the basics of IT system administration. A strong knowledge of Linux is essential for many technical cybersecurity roles. Most computers that security professionals interact with are Linux computers, and much of a security professional's work involves configuring and networking them securely.

This module will prepare you for system administration roles by covering the foundational knowledge of users, groups, permissions, and access controls.
Security+ Domains

This module covers portions of the following domain on the Security+ exam:

    3.0 Security Architecture

For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:

    Security+ Exam Objectives 

    Links to an external site.

This Week’s Lab Environment

In this module, you will continue to use your web lab.
Preview This Week’s Challenge

In this week's Challenge assignment, you will prepare a Linux server for use by a fictional organization.
Looking Forward

Next week, we will build on Linux sysadmin fundamentals by using Linux tools to archive and restore data. These practices maintain data availability and protect against natural disasters and cyberattacks. We will also learn how to schedule data backups on an hourly, daily, or monthly basis, and monitor log files to prevent and detect suspicious activity.

You'll continue to use your web lab for next week's activities.
Further Reading and Resources

    The Linux Command Line, 2nd Edition 

Links to an external site. by William Shotts

    Chapters 9, 10, 11 (pages 131–132), 17

Linux Essentials Manual, The LPI Introductory Programme

Links to an external site.

    "6.4.3 Displaying File Content: more and less", page 87

    "13.1.3 People and Pseudo-Users", page 173

    "13.3 Managing User Accounts and Group Information", page 182

    "14.4 Special Permissions for Executable Files", page 192

Linux Cheat Sheet

    Links to an external site.

Day 1 Resources

    TecMint: Linux Directory Structure Explained 

Links to an external site.

How-To Geek: How to Use the Linux top Command (and Understand Its Output)

    Links to an external site.

Day 2 Resources

    OSTECHNIX: How To Set Password Policies In Linux 

Links to an external site.

HowtoForge.com: A beginner's guide to understanding sudo on Ubuntu

    Links to an external site.

Day 3 Resources

    Change Mode (chmod) Command 

