8.1
Lesson 1: Introduction to Networking
Lesson 1: Introduction to Networking
Overview
Today's class begins our introduction to networking. You'll learn about the client–server model and use this knowledge to assess scenarios and identify clients, servers, requests, and responses. You'll also learn about network design and devices, and you'll use your new skills to map your own network using the web tool draw.io.

After studying these foundational networking concepts, we'll turn to network IP addressing, private and public IP addresses, and subnetting. We'll conclude the class by covering similar concepts as they apply to the internet, including DNS and URLs and their security implications.

What You'll Learn
By the end of today's class, you'll be able to:

Identify clients, servers, requests, and responses in network communications.

Identify how AI/ML can benefit networking.

Design a conceptual network made of various network and network security devices.

Convert binary numeric representations to readable IP addresses and determine to which servers the IP addresses belong.

Modify hosts files to circumvent DNS and redirect the access of a website.

Student Guide
Student GuideLinks to an external site.

Slide Deck
LinkLinks to an external site.

Today's Activities
Network security:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll practice identifying pieces of the client–server architecture using specific examples involving a business's network security.

Network devices:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll use your knowledge of network devices to set up a network design. Additionally, you'll implement network security devices, with a focus on how their placement affects the protection of an organization's resources.

Network addressing:Links to an external site. In this activity, you'll convert binary traffic into an IP address, determine if it is a public or private address, and compare the IP to a list of servers to see which system a malicious hacker is trying to access.

DNS hijackingLinks to an external site.: In this activity, you'll create and test a DNS spoof record that will redirect any hacker trying to visit a certain website to another site.
