
Module 11 Career Connection
Career Connection
Hello from your career team!

Here’s the Career Connection agenda for today:

Data Encryption in the Workplace
Finding Your Career Fit: Cybersecurity Resume Tips
Interview Prep
Next Steps
Data Encryption in the Workplace
This week you learned all about cryptography, which is the science of encrypting and decrypting data or concealing data so that only authorized persons can access it. Data encryption is a big deal as data breaches continue to plague businesses. You learned about some of the most common encryption techniques; however, there are others that you may encounter in the workplace. Format-Preserving Encryption (FPE) is a symmetric encryption algorithm that can be used to secure cloud management software and tools. Blowfish is another symmetric encryption algorithm known for its flexibility, speed and resilience. These are just two of the many encryption algorithms out there.

Cryptography is an integral piece of the whole information security system and it is unlikely that you’ll see encryption methods or techniques mentioned on a job description. But we know that knowledge is power. If you are interested in exploring the world of cryptography, feel free to go down the rabbit hole. Happy hunting!

Finding Your Career Fit: Cybersecurity Resume Tips
How do you make sure your resume has maximum impact? When applying for a cybersecurity position, you want your resume to stand out. The best way to communicate your talent is by crafting an impressive technical resume. With the right mix of relevant experience, accomplishments, and skills, recruiters will be knocking down your door with opportunities.

In a previous module, you learned how to develop a general resume. Now, let’s take a look at some components of an effective cybersecurity resume:

Summary

The summary lives at the top of your resume and answers the questions why should I hire you or why are you the best candidate for the job. For this reason, your cybersecurity summary must be impactful and attention-grabbing.

Here are some examples of impactful summaries for your cybersecurity resume:

Screenshot of two examples of summary statements for a cybersecurity resume.

Notice that each summary mentions specific cybersecurity skills that make them uniquely qualified for the roles they are seeking. Assert yourself as a professional in your field and mention skills that align with the job description.

Technical Skills

The technical skills section also lives at the top of your resume and is arguably the most impactful section of your resume. Recruiters and hiring managers will glance over this section looking for tech skills that match the role they are seeking to fill. We recommend adding all of the technical skills covered in your program and anything you learned on your own or encountered in previous roles.

Here’s an example of how you can structure your technical skills section:

Screenshot of two examples of the technical skills section for a cybersecurity resume.

Only add technical skills that you feel comfortable demonstrating. If the job you want requires skills you do not have, make it your mission to acquire them. As soon as you feel comfortable talking about that skill, add it to your resume.

Projects

The projects section of your resume is very important as it represents relevant experience. Yes, your projects are considered real-world experience. Your projects also prove that you have the skills you assert in the technical skills section of your resume. They are a demonstration of your mastery. Use this space well to show employers what you can do.

Here’s an example of how to add your projects to your resume:

Screenshot of two examples of how projects may be listed on a cybersecurity resume.

Experience

The goal of the experience section is to highlight relevant skills and accomplishments that make you a good fit for the job. In most cases, you will highlight your transferable skills. For example, your ability to work on a team, meet deadlines, or communicate effectively are transferable skills, and everyone has them. When you find a job you want, read the job description carefully to identify the transferable skills, and be sure to incorporate them into the experience section of your resume. Try to mimic the language in the job description as closely as possible to align your experience with the requirements of the role.

Take a look at the examples to gain inspiration for drafting your experience section:

Screenshot of two examples of how experience may be listed on a cybersecurity resume.

Experience #1 is for someone with little to no IT experience. Notice keywords like security, access, and reports as well as transferable skills like time management and client services. These key terms align the candidate with the job description.

Education and Certifications

Your education should appear at the end of your resume. However, the CompTIA Security+ certification should be placed at the top of your resume right after your summary in a section called Certifications. You can also mention it in your summary. In fact, if you are currently working towards your Security+, you can add it to your resume as an in-progress qualification.

Here is a sample cybersecurity resumeLinks to an external site. that shows the placement of your certifications and education.

For additional guidance on developing your cybersecurity resume, check out the Career Resource LibraryLinks to an external site. for more resources.

interview prep
interview prep
Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interview. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

What is the difference between symmetric and asymmetric encryption methods?
Symmetric encryption, also called private-key cryptography or a secret key algorithm, requires the sender and the receiver to have access to the same key. So, the recipient needs to have the key before the message is decrypted. This method works best for closed systems, which have less risk of a third-party intrusion.

Asymmetric encryption, Also called public-key cryptography, this method uses two keys for the encryption process, a public and a private key, which are mathematically linked. The public key is freely available to anyone, whereas the private key remains with the intended recipients only, who need it to decipher the messages.

What are the few major applications of cryptography in the modern world?
There are lots of applications of cryptography in the modern world and a few of them are:

Chip-based payment cards
Computer and other passwords
E-commerce
Defense communications
Digital Currencies
Designing protocols
Data authenticity
Pick 2-3 from the list to discuss and feel free to elaborate on the applications that are most interesting to you, relevant to the conversation or needed for the job.

Next Steps
Use the cybersecurity resume sampleLinks to an external site. and templatesLinks to an external site. to build your resume.
When you’re ready, submit your resume using the Career Services tab in your course portal and work with your career team to strengthen your resume.