Introduction to Module 11 
Cryptography
In this module, you'll learn about cryptography—the art and science of keeping information secure by using mathematical concepts and techniques.

On Day 1, we will cover the history of cryptography, the difference between encryption and encoding, and how to use a tool called Open SSL to encrypt and decrypt a message.

Day 2 will continue the topic of encryption, exploring how asymmetric encryption can address the challenges of symmetric encryption. We will also learn important cryptographic concepts such as hashing and digital signatures.

On Day 3, we will explore how the cryptographic concepts we've learned throughout the week apply to modern technology. We will cover topics such as steganography, SSL certificates, and cracking hashes with Hashcat.

What to Be Aware Of
On Day 3, during the Steganography activity, be sure to download the steganography image directly from your VM. Slacking the image after downloading it can corrupt the file and cause issues with the activity.

Security+ Domains
1.0 General Security Concepts

3.0 Security Architecture

For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:
Security+ Exam ObjectivesLinks to an external site.

This Week’s Lab Environment
You will use your cryptography lab this week.

Preview This Week’s Challenge
This week's Challenge assignment will reinforce the topics covered during the week. Ransomware has spread throughout a hospital, encrypting all patient records. To decrypt the records, you'll have to solve six cryptographic riddles!

Further Reading and Resources
We recommend the following resources to supplement the concepts covered in this module:

Day 1 Resources

Wikipedia: History of CryptographyLinks to an external site.
Medium: Understanding EncodingLinks to an external site.
Digicert.com: Guide to Open SSLLinks to an external site.
Day 2 Resources

Medium: GPG Quickstart GuideLinks to an external site.
Search Security | Tech Target: Guide to Asymmetric EncryptionLinks to an external site.
instalssl.com: What is a Digital Signature?Links to an external site.
Day 3 Resources

Infosec Institute: Guide to HashcatLinks to an external site.
Edureka.co: Guide to SteganographyLinks to an external site.
digicert.com: How do SSL Certificates Work?Links to an external site.