5.1
Lesson 1: Backups and Restoring Data with tar
Overview
In this module, we will expand our exploration of Linux system administration by learning how to use Linux tools to:

Archive data so that it remains available in case of a natural disaster or cyberattack.
Schedule data to ensure that backups are made hourly, daily, or monthly.
Monitor log files to prevent and detect suspicious activity and keep systems running efficiently.
We will begin by covering the Linux tar utility. Today's class focuses on how to use backup and recovery to protect data integrity and availability. You will use tar to list and extract data and create backups. This will allow you to guarantee data availability and integrity by archiving users' data and system configuration files.

What You’ll Learn
By the end of today’s class, you’ll be able to:

Identify and describe use cases for the three kinds of backups.

Create (tar) an archive from existing files and directories.

List and search the contents of an existing archive.

Extract (untar) the contents of an archive.

Describe and demonstrate two exploits for the tar command.

Identify and describe how backups are used for compliance.

Slide Deck
LinkLinks to an external site.

Student Guide
Student Guide M5.1Links to an external site.

Today’s Activities
Creating and Restoring Backups with tar: In this activity, you'll create a full backup of a directory and its files, including file permissions, owner, size of file, and date and time information. You'll verify the archive after saving the output to a text file, and then locate the correct archive to restore the needed directory and files.

Activity FileLinks to an external site.
Restoring Data Incremental Backups: In this activity, you'll create a incremental backup with a full backup and multiple daily backups. You'll then change or delete files and restore the archive.

Activity FileLinks to an external site.
Exploiting the tar Command with the Checkpoint and Wildcard Options: In this activity, you'll run a tar exploitation and research how to harden systems against this exploit.

Activity FileLinks to an external site.
