Introduction to Module 16
Pen Testing 2

In this second penetration testing module, you will continue your penetration testing engagement against MegaCorpOne but shift your focus to testing Windows operating systems.
What to Be Aware Of

    ⚠️ The techniques that we will learn in this module can be used to break into networks and do serious damage to an organization's infrastructure. This is illegal when done without permission. The tools and techniques that we'll discuss in this module are serious, and misusing them can have serious consequences. You should never practice these techniques against computers that you do not own or do not have clear written permission to interact with.

    You'll conclude your penetration test against MegaCorpOne with a report of your findings, so make sure to keep all your findings as you proceed through each penetration testing activity.

Security+ Domains

This module covers portions of the following domains on the Security+ exam:

    1.0 Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities
    2.0 Architecture and Design
    3.0 Implementation

For more information about these Security+ domains, refer to the following resource:
Security+ Exam Objectives

Links to an external site.
This Week's Lab Environment

For this module, you will use the pen testing lab environment located in Windows Azure Lab Services. RDP into the Windows RDP Host machine using the following credentials:

    Username: azadmin
    Password: p@ssw0rdp@ssw0rd

Preview This Week's Challenge

For this week's Challenge, you will record the activities that you undertake in your penetration test against MegaCorpOne and your results, and create a report that you'll turn in as a deliverable. This report should cover the activities you conducted in both penetration testing modules. You may use the provided template

Links to an external site. for your report, and we recommend filling it out as you work to shorten time outside class to complete it.
Looking Forward

Next week, we will conclude the Offensive Security unit with a penetration testing project.
