Career Connection: Finding Your Career Fit: Start Your New Job
Let’s imagine that by following the job-seeking advice of the prior Career Connections, you achieved your goal of obtaining a new job or promotion. Congrats! So what happens now? Obviously, you want to make a positive first impression with your new team.

In the sections below, we will discuss how to succeed on your first day, first week, and first month in your new role. As you read through the sections, we recommend utilizing this Starting A New Job ChecklistLinks to an external site. template to build your plan for your first days on the job.

Screenshot of Starting a new job checklist.

1st Day

First impressions are difficult to shake. So on the first day of your new job, your priority is to make an excellent first impression on your managers and teammates.

A few ways to achieve this are to arrive on time, dress professionally, and greet people with a smile. If you commute to work, consider doing a test drive before your first day to mitigate getting lost or stuck in traffic. If you work remotely, test your tech and communication software as soon as possible to avoid tech issues on your first day.

1st Week

Much of your first week will be spent setting up your tech and workspace and getting acquainted with your team and company. This first week is about creating a solid foundation of relationships and resources you can build upon in the coming months.

We recommend taking the initiative to schedule 15-minute intro discussions with your immediate teammates and a few people outside your team. You can use these discussions to get to know your peers and ask questions. For example, a fun question is, “What advice do you have for me in my first month here?”

1st Month

Although you may be eager to start contributing work, the first month is about learning. Take advantage of this opportunity by asking questions and diving into company resources. Starting a new job can be overwhelming, so be patient with yourself. Learning new systems, new names, and new industries takes time. However, you will find success as time goes on.

Using your phone at work may give a negative impression, so we recommend keeping a notebook nearby. Use the notebook to document questions or topics you want to research.

Interested in more resources on this topic? Check out the Career Connection Resource LibraryLinks to an external site..

Interview Prep

Prepare for your cybersecurity interviews! Use the following questions to test your knowledge and prepare for your cybersecurity interviews. Read each question, enter your answer in a notebook file or text editor, and compare your responses to the suggestion provided.

What is data carving?
Data carving or file carving, is the forensic technique of reassembling files from raw data fragments when no filesystem metadata is available. It is a common procedure when performing data recovery. It may also be performed on a core memory dump as part of a debugging procedure.

What is MD5 Checksum and how is it used in forensics?
MD5 Checksum is used to verify the integrity of files, as virtually any change to a file will cause its MD5 hash to change. Most commonly in forensics, md5sum is used to verify that a file has not changed as a result of a faulty file transfer, a disk error or non-malicious modification.